docs: add Guppy v1 migration guide (#174)
Quantinuum/guppy-docs: sphinx/v1_migration.md

# Migrating to Guppy Version 1.0

> Guppy v1 is the first stable release of the Guppy quantum programming language. It introduces several major new features alongside a number of breaking changes and new behaviour. Guppy v1 also requires Python 3.12 or later; support for Python 3.10 and 3.11 has been removed.

Author: Now it occurs to me that there should probably be a section explaining why we dropped 3.10 and 3.11.

Reviewer: I don't think this is necessary.

> Guppy v1 is the first stable release of the Guppy quantum programming language. It introduces several major new features alongside a number of breaking changes and new behaviour. Guppy v1 also requires Python 3.12 or later; support for Python 3.10 and 3.11 has been removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Guppy v1 is the first stable release of the Guppy quantum programming language. It introduces several major new features alongside a number of breaking changes and new behaviours.

Guppy v1 requires Python 3.12 or later: support for Python 3.10 and 3.11 has been removed.
```

> This guide details the key code changes needed to migrate to Guppy v1 from the 0.x series and explains the rationale for the changes. For a summary of all of the new features available in Guppy v1, see the [extended changelog](../sphinx/guppylang/guppylang/CHANGELOG.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide details the key code changes needed to migrate to Guppy v1 from the 0.x series and explains the rationale for the changes. For a summary of all of the new features available in Guppy v1, see the [changelog](../sphinx/guppylang/guppylang/CHANGELOG.md).
```

Author: Ah I can understand how changelog seems better given that we don't have a polished changelog for V1 yet. I'll adopt "changelog" for now and link to the extended V1 changelog when its written.

## The `std.quantum.measure` function now returns a `Measurement` rather than a `bool`

> A major change in Guppy v1 is that the [measure](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.measure.rst) function no longer returns a `bool` indicating $|0\rangle$ or $|1\rangle$. Instead, [measure](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.measure.rst) returns a [Measurement](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.Measurement.rst) object. A [Measurement](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.Measurement.rst) can be resolved to a Boolean by using the `Measurement.read` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A major change in Guppy v1 is that the [measure](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.measure.rst) function no longer returns a `bool` indicating $\lvert0\rangle$ or $\rvert1\rangle$. Instead, it returns a [Measurement](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.Measurement.rst) object. This can be resolved to a boolean by using the `Measurement.read` method.
```

Reviewer: And include link to `Measurement.read`.

`````{grid} 2

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v0.x

```python
@guppy
def f(a: array[qubit, 6] @owned) -> None:
    for q in a:
        result("t", measure(q))
```
````

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v1.0
```python
@guppy
def f(a: array[qubit, 6] @owned) -> None:
    for q in a:
        output("t", measure(q).read())
```
`````

> The motivation behind this change is to clarify how measurements impact the performance of a program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The motivation behind this change is to emphasise that the moment when a measurement is forced has a significant effect on a program's performance.
```

>  In Selene and Quantinuum systems it is recommended to use the value of measurements as late as possible to allow more opportunities for parallelism during the runtime of the program. Resolving measurements with the `read` method makes the behaviour more explicit to the user and means the user is less likely to accidentally force a sequence of quantum gates to be performed earlier than necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 In Selene and Quantinuum systems it is recommended to use the value of measurements as late as possible to allow more opportunities for parallelism during the runtime of the program. Resolving measurements with the `read` method makes the behaviour more explicit and allows us avoid accidentally forcing a sequence of quantum gates to be performed earlier than necessary.
```

Reviewer: "allows us to avoid"

The [project_z](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.project_z.rst) function also now returns a [Measurement](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.Measurement.rst) object. 

For more on how measurements work in Guppy v1, consult the [measurements section](language_guide/measurement.md) of the language guide.

## Guppy structs are now mutable by default

> In Guppy v1, structs are now mutable and affine by default. Prior to the v1 release, all Guppy structs were immutable meaning that the fields of a struct had fixed values when the struct was initialized.

Reviewer 2: Imo mention that previously structs were implicitly copyable and now they're not. Maybe by analogy to `array[qubit,_]`?

A snippet like the below
```python
s = Struct()
f(s)
g(s)
```
now behaves differently. The argument to `g` previously would be another copy of the struct created on the first line, but now it's using the (possibly mutated) value given back by `f`

Author: How's this for an example?

[7a12b64](https://github.com/Quantinuum/guppy-docs/pull/174/commits/7a12b640537733bb6a9bdd757cbb35af05cfcb05)

In the docs pages it looks like this...

<img width="775" height="878" alt="Screenshot 2026-07-13 at 19 31 56" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/116638c2-f56a-46b5-a45c-d72796297545" />

> In Guppy v1, structs are now mutable and affine by default. Prior to the v1 release, all Guppy structs were immutable meaning that the fields of a struct had fixed values when the struct was initialized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Guppy v1, structs are now mutable and affine by default. Prior to the v1 release, all Guppy structs were immutable, meaning that the fields of a struct had fixed values when the struct was initialized.
```

* Mutable - The values of struct fields can be modified after the struct is initialized.

> * Affine - A mutable struct value can only be used at most once. Guppy's type system only allows a single reference to mutable objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Affine - A mutable struct value can be used at most once. Guppy's type system only allows a single reference to mutable objects.
```

> Users can now indicate whether a struct should be immutable by specifying the `frozen=True` keyword argument in the `@guppy.struct` decorator, exactly the same as [Python dataclasses](https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can indicate that a struct should be immutable by specifying the `frozen=True` keyword argument in the `@guppy.struct` decorator (as in [Python dataclasses](https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html)).
```

> When migrating to Guppy v1, users will need to add this frozen keyword argument to ensure that their structs remain immutable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When migrating to Guppy v1, users will need to add this frozen keyword argument to keep the v0.x behaviour of their structs.
```

> When migrating to Guppy v1, users will need to add this frozen keyword argument to ensure that their structs remain immutable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When migrating to Guppy v1, users will need to add this `frozen` keyword argument to ensure that their structs remain immutable.
```

`````{grid} 2

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v0.x

```python
# Grid is immutable by default
@guppy.struct
class Grid:
    shape: array[int, 2]
    n_filled_sites: int
```
````

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v1.0
```python
# Use frozen=True
# to make Grid immutable
@guppy.struct(frozen=True)
class Grid:
    shape: array[int, 2]
    n_filled_sites: int
```
`````

>  Allowing mutable structs means that Guppy users can define certain data structures in a much more streamlined fashion. An example of a useful mutable struct include defining a `Counter` collection which could track the number of gates applied during the runtime of the program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Allowing mutable structs means that Guppy users can define certain data structures in a much more streamlined fashion. For example, a mutable struct can be used to define a "counter" structure to track the number of gates applied during the runtime of the program.
```

## Standard library breakages

1. Internal fields of `collections` types are now private

> Guppy has a [collections](api/generated/guppylang.std.collections.rst) module with useful `Stack`, `Queue` and `PriorityQueue` containers. These containers are now implemented as mutable Guppy structs with corresponding methods. The struct methods are the idiomatic way to program with these collections so the struct fields are now private. 

Reviewer: Link to API docs for Stack, Queue and PriorityQueue?

Author: Hmm the API docs are missing for these structs. This is a bug. I will make an issue.

<img width="1117" height="374" alt="Screenshot 2026-07-13 at 13 25 38" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/27670bb9-9a01-4a21-88b8-453cf9a5618b" />

Author: https://github.com/Quantinuum/guppy-docs/issues/179

2. The deprecated `quantum_functional` and `prelude` modules have been removed

The `quantum_functional` module no longer exists in Guppy v1. Functional quantum operations can be found in the [guppylang.std.quantum.functional](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.functional.rst) module instead.

> In addition, the old `prelude` module no longer exists. Usage of prelude should be replaced with the `builtins` module.

Author: Is this actually true? Prelude is super old and I don't think I ever used it.

Reviewer: It is an "internal" module in guppylang-internals (has been for a while). Probably no need to mention it, unless there's something I'm unaware of.

## New `Function` type in Guppy replacing `Callable` in annotations

> In Guppy 0.x, the `Callable` type could be used to annotate Guppy functions passed in type signatures. Guppy v1 has its own `Callable` type which is a Guppy protocol.

Reviewer 2: In many cases nothing needs to be done to functions taking `Callable` arguments. It's only if they're top-level functions, because then they can't be compiled.

After
> In Guppy 0.x, the `Callable` type could be used to annotate Guppy functions passed in type signatures. Guppy v1 has its own `Callable` type which is a Guppy protocol.

Say something like
> This means that these functions are now considered generic. Note that generic functions can't be compiled directly in guppy v1. In order to write a non-generic function that takes a function argument, use the new `Function` type

I think this is still insufficient explanation of the `Function` type – is there going to be another page talking about it?

Author: There is this issue which Mark is working on

https://github.com/Quantinuum/guppy-docs/issues/162

Do you think there needs to be more explanation in the migration guide? (in addition to your suggestions). Or is it sufficent to crosslink to this docs section once it exists?

Reviewer 2: i think linking to that document would be fine :+1:

`````{grid} 2

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v0.x

```python
from typing import Callable

@guppy
def prepare_choi_state(
    unitary: Callable[[array[qubit, N]], None],
) -> array[array[qubit, N], 2]:
    ...
```
````

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v1.0
```python
from guppylang.std.builtins import Function

@guppy
def prepare_choi_state(
    unitary: Function[[array[qubit, N]], None],
) -> array[array[qubit, N], 2]:
    ...
```
`````

## The `result` function has been renamed to `output`

In Guppy 0.x the [result](api/generated/guppylang.std.platform.result.rst) function was used for tagging values returned from Selene and QSystem execution. This function has now been renamed to [output](api/generated/guppylang.std.platform.output.rst). 

The reason for this change is that the term "result" was overloaded with other distinct classes such as [EmulatorResult](api/generated/guppylang.emulator.EmulatorResult) and [std.err.Result](api/generated/guppylang.std.err.Result.rst). 

> Note that the [result](api/generated/guppylang.std.platform.result.rst) function hasn't been removed and will still work. The use of [output](api/generated/guppylang.std.platform.output.rst) is encouraged for clarity.

Reviewer: Mention that it is deprecated.

> 

Reviewer 2: and `state_result` -> `state_output` per #123 ?

Author: Yes, good spot. Will add that too.

## Changes to Guppy libraries

Introduced in Guppy v0.21.13, Guppy libraries provide a way to group Guppy functions and structs into a single compilable unit. With the new Guppy v1 release, there are two breakages to Guppy libraries. For up-to-date information on how libraries work in Guppy, refer to the [libraries section](language_guide/libraries.md) of the Guppy language guide.

1. Guppy libraries are now created with `GuppyLibrary.from_members`

In Guppy 0.21, a `GuppyLibrary` was created using the `guppy.library` API. In Guppy v1, a `GuppyLibrary` is instead created using the `GuppyLibrary.from_members` method.

`````{grid} 2

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v0.x

```python

> # Create a GuppyLibrary from

Author: These two library snippets are essentially just showing the changes I made to make the libraries section of the language guide work with v1. If there are better examples I should show then let me know.

Reviewer: Seems fine to me.

# three function definitions
lib = guppy.library(
    first_func,
    second_func,
    third_func,
)
```
````

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v1.0
```python
# Create a GuppyLibrary from
# three function definitions
lib = GuppyLibrary.from_members(
    first_func,
    second_func,
    third_func,
)
```
`````

> This change is motivated by the fact that methods on `guppy` symbol are most often used to create a single Guppy definition. A `GuppyLibrary` refers to a collection of Guppy definitions. 

Reviewer: This seems rather a weak motivation. Maybe say instead that it makes the new type explicit. I think it would be clearer if the second example included the missing `import`.

Author: This was my attempt at rephrasing @maximilianruesch 's rationale for the change. I may have stated it badly. @tatiana-s Do you know of a better way to give the justification for removing the `guppy.library` API?

Reviewer 3: Not sure, I think some of the actual motivation was not wanting to have to import library from guppy and then other library stuff from library? But maybe in terms of justification for users could just say that the `GuppyLibrary.from_members` is just a more descriptive way

Author: I've gone with

"This change means that the entire API for Guppy libraries is self-contained within the `guppylang.library` module."

2. `link_name` is now its own decorator

> Guppy libraries can also be used to link function declarations against function calls. This is by associating a `link_name` with a function definition. In Guppy 0.21, this was accomplished by specifying `link_name` as a keyword argument in the `@guppy` decorator. However in Guppy v1, `link_name` is now its own decorator. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Guppy libraries can also be used to link function declarations against function calls, by associating a `link_name` with a function definition. In Guppy 0.21, this was accomplished by specifying `link_name` as a keyword argument in the `@guppy` decorator. In Guppy v1, `link_name` is its own decorator. 
```

# Migrating to Guppy Version 1.0

Guppy v1 is the first stable release of the Guppy quantum programming language. It introduces several major new features alongside a number of breaking changes and new behaviours.

Guppy v1 requires Python 3.12 or later: support for Python 3.10 and 3.11 has been removed.

This guide details the key code changes needed to migrate to Guppy v1 from the 0.x series and explains the rationale for the changes. For a summary of all of the new features available in Guppy v1, see the [changelog](../sphinx/guppylang/guppylang/CHANGELOG.md).

## The `std.quantum.measure` function now returns a `Measurement` rather than a `bool`

A major change in Guppy v1 is that the [measure](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.measure.rst) function no longer returns a `bool` indicating $\lvert0\rangle$ or $\rvert1\rangle$. Instead, it returns a [Measurement](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.Measurement.rst) object. This can be resolved to a boolean
 by using the {py:meth}`~guppylang.std.quantum.Measurement.read` method.

`````{grid} 2

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v0.x

```python
@guppy
def f(a: array[qubit, 6] @owned) -> None:
    for q in a:

>         result("t", measure(q))

Reviewer 3: I am not sure and this may be fine but is using result/output here before the change is introduced later in the section a bit confusing / detracting from the point of comparison here?

Author: Fair enough. I've referenced that here to avoid confusion hopefully -> [9519a7f](https://github.com/Quantinuum/guppy-docs/pull/174/commits/9519a7f6057f7cc8faee27f3c60baf8e4873e603)

```
````

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v1.0
```python
@guppy
def f(a: array[qubit, 6] @owned) -> None:
    for q in a:
        output("t", measure(q).read())
```
`````

> The motivation behind this change is to emphasise that the moment when a measurement is forced has a significant effect on a program's performance.

Reviewer 3: This sentence is slightly hard to read imo, maybe just something like "This change highlights that measurement timing can have a significant effect on program performance"?

Author: I very much agree.

How's this?

"This change is to emphasize that forcing measurements can have a significant effect on a program's performance"

 In Selene and Quantinuum systems it is recommended to use the value of measurements as late as possible to allow more opportunities for parallelism during the runtime of the program. Resolving measurements with the {py:meth}`~guppylang.std.quantum.Measurement.read` method makes the behaviour more explicit and allows us to avoid accidentally forcing a sequence of quantum gates to be performed earlier than necessary.

The [project_z](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.project_z.rst) function also now returns a [Measurement](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.Measurement.rst) object. 

For more on how measurements work in Guppy v1, consult the [measurements section](language_guide/measurement.md) of the language guide.

## Guppy structs are now mutable by default

In Guppy v1, structs are now mutable and affine by default. Prior to the v1 release, all Guppy structs were immutable, meaning that the fields of a struct had fixed values when the struct was initialized.

> * Mutable - The values of struct fields can be modified after the struct is initialized.

Reviewer 3: You are essentially defining mutable twice here

Author: Thanks, [3b4568b](https://github.com/Quantinuum/guppy-docs/pull/174/commits/3b4568bf1cb941eb8e69ebad8ae890279dc2e544)

---
file_format: mystnb
kernelspec:
  name: python3
---

# Migrating to Guppy Version 1.0

Guppy v1 is the first stable release of the Guppy quantum programming language. It introduces several major new features alongside a number of breaking changes and new behaviours.

Guppy v1 requires Python 3.12 or later: support for Python 3.10 and 3.11 has been removed.

This guide details the key code changes needed to migrate to Guppy v1 from the 0.x series and explains the rationale for the changes. For a summary of all of the new features available in Guppy v1, see the [changelog](../sphinx/guppylang/guppylang/CHANGELOG.md).

## The `std.quantum.measure` function now returns a `Measurement` rather than a `bool`

> A major change in Guppy v1 is that the [measure](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.measure.rst) function no longer returns a `bool` indicating $\lvert0\rangle$ or $\rvert1\rangle$. Instead, it returns a [Measurement](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.Measurement.rst) object. This can be resolved to a boolean

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A major change in Guppy v1 is that the [measure](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.measure.rst) function no longer returns a `bool` indicating $\lvert0\rangle$ or $\lvert1\rangle$. Instead, it returns a [Measurement](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.Measurement.rst) object. This can be resolved to a boolean
```

Reviewer: Not sure if you need a space after `lvert`?

 by using the {py:meth}`~guppylang.std.quantum.Measurement.read` method.

`````{grid} 2

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v0.x

```python
@guppy
def f(a: array[qubit, 6] @owned) -> None:
    for q in a:
        result("t", measure(q))
```
````

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v1.0
```python
@guppy
def f(a: array[qubit, 6] @owned) -> None:
    for q in a:
        output("t", measure(q).read())
```
`````

> Note that in this snippet `result` has been changed to `output` inline with the [deprecation](#the-result-function-has-been-renamed-to-output) mentioned later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that in this snippet `result` has been changed to `output` in line with the [deprecation](#the-result-function-has-been-renamed-to-output) mentioned later.
```

> This change is to emphasize that forcing measurements can have a significant effect on a program's performance.

Reviewer 4: Is it worth explaining more here? (e.g.  for ion traps we must take the time to move the target qubit into a measurement zone. This prevents us moving/working on some other qubit in its place)

>  In Selene and Quantinuum systems it is recommended to use the value of measurements as late as possible to allow more opportunities for parallelism during the runtime of the program. Resolving measurements with the {py:meth}`~guppylang.std.quantum.Measurement.read` method makes the behaviour more explicit and allows us to avoid accidentally forcing a sequence of quantum gates to be performed earlier than necessary.

Reviewer 4: Do you want to say this is managed by a lower level compiler?

The [project_z](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.project_z.rst) function also now returns a [Measurement](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.Measurement.rst) object. 

For more on how measurements work in Guppy v1, consult the [measurements section](language_guide/measurement.md) of the language guide.

## Guppy structs are now mutable by default

> In Guppy v1, structs are now mutable and affine by default. Prior to the v1 release, Guppy structs were always immutable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Guppy v1, structs are now mutable and affine by default. Prior to the v1 release, Guppy structs were always immutable and therefore implicitly copyable.
```

* Mutable - The values of struct fields can be modified after the struct is initialized.
* Affine - A mutable struct value can be used at most once. Guppy's type system only allows a single reference to mutable objects.

Users can indicate that a struct should be immutable by specifying the `frozen=True` keyword argument in the `@guppy.struct` decorator (as in [Python dataclasses](https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html)).

When migrating to Guppy v1, users will need to add this `frozen=True` keyword argument to keep the v0.x behaviour of their structs.

`````{grid} 2

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v0.x

```python
# Grid is immutable by default
@guppy.struct
class Grid:
    shape: array[int, 2]
    n_filled_sites: int
```
````

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v1.0
```python
# Use frozen=True
# to make Grid immutable
@guppy.struct(frozen=True)
class Grid:
    shape: array[int, 2]
    n_filled_sites: int
```
`````

 Allowing mutable structs means that Guppy users can define certain data structures in a much more streamlined fashion. For example, a mutable struct can be used to define a "counter" structure to track the number of gates applied during the runtime of the program.

>  Note that because structs are now affine by default, they cannot be implicitly copied. 

Reviewer 4: ..to copy them they need to be marked as frozen?

Reviewer 2: Yes, this is one of the main behaviour changes in v1 that we need to communicate – structs are now affine by default

Author: Yes, [this snippet](https://github.com/Quantinuum/guppy-docs/pull/174#discussion_r3573182107) is intended to illustrate that structs are now affine by default.

>  Here is an example of an implicit struct copy which would type check with Guppy 0.x but gives a type error with Guppy v1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Here is an example of an implicit struct copy which would type-check with Guppy 0.x but gives a type error with Guppy v1.
```

 ```{code-cell} ipython3
---
tags: [raises-exception]
---

from guppylang import guppy

@guppy.struct
class MyStruct:
    x: int
    y: float

    @guppy
    def add(self) -> float:
        return self.x + self.y

@guppy
def main() -> None:
    s0 = MyStruct(7, 1.4)
    s1 = s0
    s0.add() # Copy violation as we are using s0 after a move

main.check() # Fails type check in v1, valid in 0.x
```

> This code above gives an error in Guppy v1. However if we specified `@guppy.struct(frozen=True)` then this code would type check as `s1` would be an immutable copy of `s0` instead of a reference to `s0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code above gives an error in Guppy v1. However if we specified `@guppy.struct(frozen=True)` then this code would type-check as `s1` would be an immutable copy of `s0` instead of a reference to `s0`.
```

## Standard library breakages

1. Internal fields of `collections` types are now private

Guppy has a [collections](api/generated/guppylang.std.collections.rst) module with useful `Stack`, `Queue` and `PriorityQueue` containers. These containers are now implemented as mutable Guppy structs with corresponding methods. The struct methods are the idiomatic way to program with these collections so the struct fields are now private. 

2. The deprecated `quantum_functional` module has been removed

The `quantum_functional` module no longer exists in Guppy v1. Functional quantum operations can be found in the [guppylang.std.quantum.functional](api/generated/guppylang.std.quantum.functional.rst) module instead.

## New `Function` type in Guppy replacing `Callable` in annotations

In Guppy 0.x, the `Callable` type could be used to annotate Guppy functions passed in type signatures. Guppy v1 has its own `Callable` type which is a Guppy protocol.
 The new Guppy [Function](api/generated/guppylang.std.builtins.Function.rst) type implements this `Callable` protocol.
 

>  This means that these functions are now considered generic. Note that generic functions can't be compiled directly in guppy v1. In order to write a non-generic function that takes a function argument, use the new [Function](api/generated/guppylang.std.builtins.Function.rst) type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 This means that these functions are now considered generic. Note that generic functions can't be compiled directly in guppy v1. In order to write a non-generic function that takes a function argument, use the new [Function](api/generated/guppylang.std.builtins.Function.rst) type instead of `Callable`.
```

 
This is a breaking change as functions with `Callable` in their signatures will no longer compile in Guppy v1.

>  Usage of `Callable` for functions should be replaced with the new [Function](api/generated/guppylang.std.builtins.Function.rst) type as shown below.

Reviewer 5: Maybe this could be clarified slightly, not necessarily clear what 'compiled directly' means and second paragraph implies that functions using `Callable` won't compile

Author: Fair. I think the you have to pass a particular value of a generic varible k before compiling as monomorphisation is now done in Guppy itself. Sound right @croyzor ?

Author: I think I'll merge and then follow up with an improvement to this subsection.

Reviewer 2: Yes exactly, maybe we should replace "compile directly" with "compile by calling `.compile()` method on the function".

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v0.x

```python
# Create a GuppyLibrary from
# three function definitions
lib = guppy.library(
    first_func,
    second_func,
    third_func,
)
```
````

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v1.0
```python

# Create a GuppyLibrary from
# three function definitions
lib = GuppyLibrary.from_members(
    first_func,
    second_func,
    third_func,
)
```
`````

This change means that the entire API for Guppy libraries is self-contained within the {py:mod}`guppylang.library` module. 

2. `link_name` is now its own decorator

Guppy libraries can also be used to link function declarations against function calls, by associating a `link_name` with a function definition. In Guppy 0.21, this was accomplished by specifying `link_name` as a keyword argument in the `@guppy` decorator. In Guppy v1, {py:func}`~guppylang.library.link_name` is its own decorator. 
This was changed to keep the keyword arguments to `@guppy` related to compilation and to provide better error messages to the user.

`````{grid} 2

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v0.x

```python
@guppy(link_name="my.lib.func")
def my_func() -> None:
    pass
```
````

````{grid-item-card} Guppy v1.0
```python
@guppy

> @link_name("my.lib.func")

Reviewer 4: Is it worth making this consistent with the library construction above such that this is first_func and then you demo using it with my.lib.func?

Author: Yeah that could be good
